[Music]
[Laughter]
why we laugh at inappropriate moments
[Music]
hey have you ever laughed at someone
else's pain come on now be honest
what about chuckling at a joke you
didn't actually think was funny or even
understand the list goes on and on when
we're talking about situations when we
laugh but they don't have anything to do
with something being funny the real
question is why do we do it well before
you find out go ahead and click that
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell that join us on the
bright side there are countless memes
gifts even entire TV shows and movies
where the whole point is to make us
laugh at other people's mishaps but in
real life it's unlikely that we'd crack
up at something as unfortunate or
dangerous as this in fact we'd probably
be emotionally scarred and if we did
laugh it wouldn't be because we thought
it was funny researchers found that only
10 to 20% of laughter is a genuine
response to a shared joke that leaves a
hole eighty to ninety percent of
laughter unaccounted for
according to neuroscientist dr. Robert
probe a laughter is mostly something we
do more when we're together than when
we're alone dr. Provine also says that
it's ingrained in our DNA
it's intuitive and instinctual we were
born knowing how to laugh and we use it
to connect to other humans
so that 80 to 90 percent of unaccounted
for laughter is when people are laughing
because something isn't funny any
guesses as to what the other reasons
could be if you said sadness fear
nervousness and awkward feeling seeing
something that makes you uncomfortable
or something of that nature then you
were spot-on speaking of awkward
laughter why is it that we sometimes
laugh when we're uncomfortable I think
all of us can remember a time when we
interacted with someone we didn't know
well or who made us feel uneasy so we
just laughed it off laughing in the
awkward negative sense often helps us
deal with things that mostly stemmed
from fear
dr. Margee Kerr the sociologist from the
university of pittsburgh who specializes
in the study of fear and wrote a book
called scream chilling adventures in the
science of fear says that we laugh at
things like this because they violate
our expectations basically we get scared
when things don't go as we expect them
to in an extreme sense we could actually
be laughing because we're in physical
shock and are in denial about the
situation we're witnessing it's a way to
mentally run away from our fear and
literally laugh it off it's a comforting
mechanism to calm down our mind in a
high-stress situation this is why horror
movies that use kids or animals things
that are supposed to be cute and make us
happy are especially terrifying to us
and we might even nervously laugh when
watching things of this nature it said
that fear and laughter are very closely
related when we're talking about mental
state
according to dr. Kerr they're both what
she calls high arousal states in other
words times when we're feeling some
really intense emotions it then makes
sense that the brain might use these two
things interchangeably in this highly
charged state but why do certain types
of laughter scare us like the guy with
that haunting laugh who narrates Michael
Jackson Thriller video
or a robot that unexpectedly laughs why
would a robot laugh they don't feel
things so we expect them to be stoic
apparently not too long ago Amazon's
Alexa virtual assistant had a glitch and
just started laughing in people's homes
completely unprovoked and unasked-for
can you imagine how utterly terrifying
that would be Amazon claims that Alexa
thought people were saying Alexa laughs
obviously this incident didn't fail to
completely freak some people out perhaps
AI really is becoming self-aware and
learning how to a moat do you have an
iPhone or Google home device are you
nervously laughing yet we also sometimes
laugh when we're sad Helena Bala wrote
an article for Man Repeller calm that
starts off describing a group of older
women laughing at a funeral have you
ever laughed during an intensely sad and
emotional moment like the old saying
goes if we don't laugh we cry Bala
describes laughter as the great
equalizer almost like a reset button it
neutralizes that intense emotion were
experiencing she explains that our brain
responds to this emotional overload by
releasing stress in the form of laughter
I know it's not the best way to
de-stress in a really sad situation but
it does work for the body our system
even stops releasing cortisol the stress
hormone as a result of this stress
induced laughter it's almost like your
own body is trying to trick you into
entering a stress free state that is
when you're happy and laughing there's
actually a term in psychology for this
laugh or reaction it's aptly called the
inappropriate effect by allowing us to
laugh in the face of a stressor our
subconscious is trying to soothe us and
assure us that everything is fine
but because the situation doesn't call
for it by societal or cultural
expectations you know you just don't
laugh at a funeral
it comes off so weird and even rude
that's white nervous laughter can end up
having the opposite effect it makes a
person feel even more stressed out but
these two types of laughter are totally
different they even come from different
parts of the body
nervous laughter originates in the
throat rather than in the torso or belly
like real laughter does psychologically
speaking motivations for nervous
laughter can be for reasons like
embarrassment discomfort or confusion
it's a verifiable physical reaction to
anxiety stress tension and
disorientation for some laughter is an
attempt to take control of an
uncontrollable situation there at it's
often a crutch for shy people that helps
them alleviate some of the social
anxiety they might be feeling when
stepping out of their comfort zone and
interacting with others sometimes
laughter can just provide relief from a
tough day at work or school laughing in
the positive sense is supposed to be
contagious and make us feel good and it
certainly accomplishes this task it's a
method we use to connect to others it
lifts our mood and it creates good vibes
realizing that you share a sense of
humor with someone which is something
that's really specific and unique to
each person is an easy way to recognize
the common ground you might have with a
stranger or acquaintance therefore it
can be a really quick bridge to
Friendship what type of effect laughter
can have on our pain tolerance there
were two groups both of which had to go
through painful procedures where their
pain tolerance was recorded they were
then split up one group was shown boring
videos while the other watched funny
videos it turned out that the group that
spent their time watching funny videos
and laughing actually saw their pain
tolerance go up
the group that watched the boring videos
on the other hand saw their pain
tolerance go down this means that
laughter really is the best medicine you
were waiting for that one weren't you
now so next time you find yourself
laughing nervously during a really sad
awkward scary or even painful situation
just to remember that your body is
trying to soothe itself from the stress
and discomfort I know it kind of makes
you feel bad and weird but according to
science it's totally natural mm-hmm
so which kinds of interactions or
situations make you laugh awkwardly let
us know down in the comments don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life